---
title: How I earned OSCP
date: 2024-01-24 11:00:00 -500
categories: [writeup]
# TAGS should always be lowercase
---



# This is my story on how passed OSCP with 90 points

## Background before exam

In summer of 2022 I had zero background of cybersecurity. I started by doing labs on HackTheBox and taking notes of each box I pwn. Ofcourse I followed write-ups when I was stuck but make sure to avoid them as much as you can.



## OSCP exam preparation

I started by doing HackTheBox TJ Null's list boxes, Then OSCP's LAB machines (OSCP A,B,C, MedTech, Relia) then Proving grounds TJ Null's list.


## Exam's day

I woke up at 6:45 AM(I actually couldn't sleep well) then I opened the proctored tool around 7:40 AM, went through the identification procedures and started my exam around 8:05 AM. I started by doing the Active Directory, I got initial access on the first machine but got stuck on the privilege escalation part. I took a break got me a cup of coffee and started again, after few hours I got Administrator's access. By 14:00 AM I had rooted the second machine and the domain controller.

Next, I moved on to the standalone machines. I couldn't find an attack vector on the first one so I immediately moved to the next. By 15:00 AM I had both local and proof flags. By now I new I had enough points to successed but I had to check the last machine. I eventually found an attack vector on the last machine and got local and proof flags by 17:33 AM.

Keep in mind that I have faced so many rabbit holes.

Exam's day be like:

After finishing the last machine and achieving 90 points I immidiately started writing the report.

## Report writing

This is not your average school report, it's serious you need to write a good and DETAILED report. Make sure to add every command and every screenshot that helped leading you to successfuly rooting the machine. If you use a new tool such as autorecon, ligolo-ng add from where and how you installed it, make sure to take a good screenshot of the local.txt and proof.txt flags (powershell -c "whoami;;hostname;;type proof.txt;;ipconfig").

The commands in your report will be replicated by a competent reader. So you have to write a report to the point that your grandma understands it.

## Tips & Tricks

Enumerate,enumerate,enumerate. For better enumeration use [Autorecon](https://github.com/Tib3rius/AutoRecon) by Tib3rus.

Learn and use [Ligolo-ng](https://github.com/nicocha30/ligolo-ng) for pivoting.

Take a break the day before the exam.

Take breaks between machines and when you get stuck.

Make your own cheat sheet of commands and "things to be aware of".
